technocentrism
    A value system that is centered on
    technology and its ability to control and
    protect the environment.[citation needed]
    Technocentrics argue that technology can
    address ecological problems through its
    problem-solving ability, efficiency, and
    its managerial means.
    
    Specifically, these capabilities allow
    humans control over nature, allowing them
    to correct or negotiate environmental
    risks or problems.
    
    Although technocentrics may accept that
    environmental problems exist, they do not
    see them as problems to be solved by a
    reduction in industry.
    
    Rather, environmental problems are seen as
    problems to be solved using rational,
    scientific and technological means.
    
    They also believe in scientific research.
    
    Indeed, technocentrics see the way forward
    for both developed and developing
    countries, and the solutions to
    environmental problems, as lying in
    scientific and technological advancement
    (sometimes referred to as
    sustainopreneurship).

ecocentrism
    Often contrasted with ecocentrism.
    
    Ecocentrics, including deep ecologists,
    see themselves as being subject to nature,
    rather than in control of it.
    
    They lack faith in modern technology and
    the bureaucracy attached to it so they
    maintain responsibility for the
    environment.
    
    Ecocentrics will argue that the natural
    world should be respected for its
    processes and products and that low-impact
    technology and self-sufficiency is more
    desirable than technological control of
    nature.
    
    Fundamentally, ecocentrism maintains that
    concerns for the natural environment
    should dominate the needs of humankind,
    pitting it against the anthropocentric
    position of technocentrism, which pushes
    the needs of humans at the forefront even
    at the expense of everything else.

prosaic
    Having the style or diction of prose;
    lacking poetic beauty.