Decentralized autonomous organization
DAO
decentralized autonomous corporation
    An organization represented by rules
    encoded as a computer program that is
    transparent, controlled by the
    organization members and not influenced by
    a central government.

    Can you imagine a way of organizing with
    other people around the world, without
    knowing each other and establishing your
    own rules, and making your own decisions
    autonomously all encoded on a Blockchain?
    Well, DAOs are making this real.

    A DAO’s financial transactions and rules
    are recorded on a blockchain.
    
    This eliminates the need to involve a
    third party in a financial transaction,
    simplifying those transactions through
    smart contracts.
    
    The firmness of a DAO is a smart contract.
    
    The smart contract represents the rules of
    the organization and holds the
    Organization’s storage.
    
    No one can edit the rules without people
    noticing, because DAOs are transparent and
    public.
    
    Up to today we are used to companies
    backed by legal status, a DAO may
    perfectly function without it as it can be
    structured as a general partnership.

    In comparison to traditional companies,
    DAOs have a democratized organization.
    
    All the members of a DAO need to vote for
    any changes to be implemented, instead of
    implemented changes by a sole party
    (depending on the company’s structure).
    
    The funding of DAOs is mainly based on
    crowdfunding that issues tokens.
    
    The governance of DAOs is based on
    community, while traditional companies’
    governance is mostly based on executives,
    Board of Directors, activist investors.
    etc.
    
    DAOs’ operations are fully transparent and
    global, meanwhile, traditional companies’
    operations are private, only the
    organization know what is happening, and
    they are not always global.

double-spending
    The risk that a digital currency can be
    spent twice.
    
    It is a potential problem unique to
    digital currencies because digital
    information can be reproduced relatively
    easily by savvy individuals who understand
    the blockchain network and the computing
    power necessary to manipulate it.

State channels
    Refer to the process in which users
    transact with one another directly outside
    of the blockchain, or 'off-chain,' and
    greatly minimize their use of 'on-chain'
    operations.

Layer 2
    A secondary framework or protocol that is
    built on top of an existing blockchain
    system.

    The main goal of these protocols is to
    solve the transaction speed and scaling
    difficulties that are being faced by the
    major cryptocurrency networks.
