mind-body problem
     A debate concerning the relationship
     between thought and consciousness in the
     human mind, and the brain as part of the
     physical body.
     
     It is distinct from the question of how
     mind and body function chemically and
     physiologically, as that question
     presupposes an interactionist account of
     mind–body relations.
     
     This question arises when mind and body
     are considered as distinct, based on the
     premise that the mind and the body are
     fundamentally different in nature.

Interactionist
interactionism
    [sociology]

    A theoretical perspective that derives
    social processes (such as conflict,
    cooperation, identity formation) from
    human interaction.
    
    It is the study of how individuals shape
    society and are shaped by society through
    meaning that arises in interactions.
    
    Interactionist theory has grown in the
    latter half of the twentieth century and
    has become one of the dominant
    sociological perspectives in the world
    today.

    George Herbert Mead, as an advocate of
    pragmatism and the subjectivity of social
    reality, is considered a leader in the
    development of interactionism.
    
    Herbert Blumer expanded on Mead's work and
    coined the term "symbolic interactionism".

hard problem of consciousness
    The hard problem of consciousness is the
    problem of explaining why and how we have
    qualia or phenomenal experiences.
    
    That is to say, it is the problem of why
    we have personal, first-person
    experiences, often described as
    experiences that feel "like something."
    
    In comparison, we assume there are no such
    experiences for inanimate things like, for
    instance, a thermostat, toaster, computer,
    or a sophisticated form of artificial
    intelligence.
    
    The philosopher David Chalmers, who
    introduced the term "hard problem of
    consciousness," contrasts this with the
    "easy problems" of explaining the physical
    systems that give us and other animals the
    ability to discriminate, integrate
    information, report mental states, focus
    attention, and so forth.
    
    Easy problems are (relatively) easy
    because all that is required for their
    solution is to specify a mechanism that
    can perform the function.
    
    That is, even though we have yet to solve
    most of the easy problems (our
    understanding of the brain is still
    preliminary), these questions can probably
    eventually be understood by relying
    entirely on standard scientific methods.
    
    Chalmers claims that even once we have
    solved such problems about the brain and
    experience, the hard problem will "persist
    even when the performance of all the
    relevant functions is explained".
    
    The existence of a "hard problem" is
    controversial.
    
    It has been accepted by philosophers of
    mind such as Joseph Levine, Colin McGinn,
    and Ned Block and cognitive
    neuroscientists such as Francisco Varela,
    Giulio Tononi, and Christof Koch.
    
    However, its existence is disputed by
    philosophers of mind such as Daniel
    Dennett, Massimo Pigliucci, Thomas
    Metzinger, Patricia Churchland, and Keith
    Frankish, and cognitive neuroscientists
    such as Stanislas Dehaene, Bernard Baars,
    Anil Seth and Antonio Damasio.

universal mind
universal consciousness
    A metaphysical concept suggesting an
    underlying essence of all being and
    becoming in the universe.