Simulacra & Science Fiction
    https://youtu.be/bf9J35yzM3E?t=978

    In Simulacra and Simulation, the chapter
    titled "Simulacra and Science Fiction" by Jean
    Baudrillard speaks about the gap between
    the real and the imaginary.

    In the ancient world this gap was vast and
    clear, allowing people to imagine a world
    radically different from the real one.
    
    A perfect utopia made in the image of God.
    
    It is this imagination that the allegory
    of Plato's cave reflects, because it
    depends on this gap between the real and
    the ideal worlds.
    
    Then, in the industrial revolution, the
    gap between the real and the imaginary
    shrinks.
    
    The mystical utopias of the ancient world
    are replaced by science fiction.
    
    We no longer imagine a world radically
    different from the real one, but rather a
    world that's a mere expansion of the real
    one.
    
    We imagine what it would be like if our
    technology was much more developed, if our
    ability to travel extended to unexplored
    regions in space, if our sciences
    reveal even more than they currently do.
    
    Finally, in the postmodern society the gap
    between the real and the imaginary
    disappears completely, and we are no
    longer capable of ideal projections (of
    imagining new worlds).
    
    We can only imagine mere reconfigurations
    of our world, or simply relive the ideal
    projections of past times.

imaginary internet
imaginary web
    An imaginary world-wide-web is an
    analog of the World-Wide-Web imagined by a
    language model.

prompting
    The act of stoking a LM to perform a
    generation.

imagination
    The extrapolation of a language model's
    weights via prompting. The returned
    results of prompting.

imaginary reality
    The distinction between this and virtual
    reality is that virtual reality isn't
    really concerned so much with Neural
    Networks for a lazily generated potential
    reality that is constructed as one's own
    mind prompts another.
    
    Also virtual reality is engineered for
    people to explore where imaginary reality
    is generated at will by a user and does
    not follow rules.
    
    Imaginary reality takes place within a
    walled garden of a single mind /
    imagination forming around another.
    
    The interpretation of the output of one
    mind/neural net as have been sensed and
    interpreted by another mind / Neural
    Network, in real time.

pure imaginary reality
    This is one's personal introspective
    experience of their own imagination.

impure imaginary reality
    This is one's experience of another's
    imagination, whether that be another
    biological mind or a Neural Network.
