Mithraism
    There are in fact signs that in some
    cultic associations the ordinary social
    roles were disregarded.
    
    For example, the famous inscription on a
    shrine in honor of Agdistis (and several
    other savior deities) in Philadelphia,
    Lydia, begins:
    - "The commandments given to Dionysius
      [the owner of the house] (by Zeus),
      granting access in sleep to his own
      house both to free men and women, and to
      household slaves."

    And it concludes with similar words:
    "These commandments were placed [here] by
    Agdistis, the most holy Guardian and
    Mistress of this house, that she might
    show her good will [or intentions] to men
    and women, bond and free, so that they
    might follow the [rules] written here and
    take part in the sacrifices which [are
    offered] month by month and year by year."

    Initiation at Eleusis was permitted, at
    least as early as the fourth century
    B.C., to women, even hetairai, as well as
    to slaves, and to foreigners if they spoke
    Greek.

    In Roman Hellenism syncretic mysteries of
    Oriental and Egyptian origin became
    important foci in the quest for identity
    pursued by so many persons who had been
    uprooted from the polis, phratria, or
    gens.

    In most of them, with the notable
    exception of Mithraism, women were
    initiated on a par with men, just as
    distinctions of origin, family, class, or
    servitude were put aside.

    In some of the cults, moreover, the
    exchange of sexual roles, by ritual
    transvestism for example, was an important
    symbol for the disruption of ordinary
    life's categories in the experience of
    initiation.

    This disruption, however, did not
    ordinarily reach beyond the boundaries of
    the initiatory experience except, of
    course, in the case of devotees who went
    on to become cult functionaries, like the
    galli who irrevocably assimilated
    themselves to Cybele by the sacrifice of
    emasculation.
    
    Otherwise, dissolution of role in the
    initiation must have been more a safety
    valve than a detonator for the pressures
    of role antagonism in the larger
    society.

    Initiation did not have the social
    consequences of "conversion"; the
    mysteries created no enduring, inclusive
    community that could provide an
    alternative to the patterns of association
    in the larger society.