https://books.openbookpublishers.com/10.11647/obp.0187/tables.xhtml

character arc
    The transformation or inner journey of a
    character over the course of a story.
    
    If a story has a character arc, the
    character begins as one sort of person and
    gradually transforms into a different sort
    of person in response to changing
    developments in the story.
    
    Since the change is often substantive and
    leading from one personality trait to a
    diametrically opposite trait (for example,
    from greed to benevolence), the geometric
    term arc is often used to describe the
    sweeping change.
    
    In most stories, lead characters and
    protagonists are the characters most
    likely to experience character arcs,
    although lesser characters often change as
    well.
    
    A driving element of the plots of many
    stories is that the main character seems
    initially unable to overcome opposing
    forces, possibly because they lack skills
    or knowledge or resources or friends.
    
    To overcome such obstacles, the main
    character must change, possibly by
    learning new skills, to arrive at a higher
    sense of self-awareness or capability.
    
    Main characters can achieve such self-
    awareness by interacting with their
    environment, by enlisting the help of
    mentors, by changing their viewpoint, or
    by some other method.

Adaptation
    A work based on a story previously told in a different medium.

Agency
    The capacity to act in an environment.

Agon
    Ancient Greek term for conflict, particularly the conflict found in tragedy.

Allegory
    A story that uses extended symbolism in order to communicate meanings, generally moral or abstract ideas, beyond the literal meaning of events, environments, and characters.

Antagonist
    A character in the story that opposes the protagonist and struggles to frustrate his or her goals.

Archetype
    A type that has become part of the psychology and culture of a society and appears in many different storyworlds.

Atmosphere
    The quality of an environment that reflects meaningful relationships between things and events or characters.

Biography
    A narrative of a person’s life.

Character
    An entity with agency in a storyworld.

Characterisation
    The meaningful arrangement or presentation of the characters of the story.

Chronotope
    The configuration of time and space in language and narrative discourse.

Cliché
    A figure of speech that has been so overused that it has lost much of its original force and is perceived in negative terms.

Climax
    Stage in the evolution of a plot in which the conflict achieves its maximum intensity and decisive events take place.

Collaborative fiction
    A form of writing where two or more authors share creative control of the narrative.

Commentary
    Any pronouncement of the narrator that goes beyond a description or account of the existents of the storyworld.

Conceit (also, Farfetched trope)
    A figure of speech that seems too strange, complex, awkward, or extreme to be effective, and tends to call attention to itself, often in a negative way.

Conflict
    Clash of two opposing wills or goals, sometimes (but not always) resulting in violent confrontation.

Dead trope
    A figure of speech that has been incorporated into normal language and is no longer recognised as such.

Description
    The textual representation of characters or environments.

Dialogism
    The use in narrative of different perspectives or viewpoints, whose interaction or contradiction is important to the story’s interpretation.

Dialogue
    Representation of verbal or speech interactions between characters, often accompanied by dialogue or speech tags.

Dialogue tags (also, Speech tags)
    Narrative indications that often accompany dialogue in prose fiction to provide information about the speakers, the quality and tone of speech, the environment, etc.

Discourse
    The means through which a narrative is communicated by the implied author to the implied reader.

Embedded narration
    A story that is narrated within another story.

Emplotment
    The arrangement of the events of the story into a plot.

Environment
    Everything that surrounds the characters in the storyworld.

Epiphany
    A sudden and life-changing moment of illumination that provides a new understanding of the world to the characters.

Event
    A change of state occurring in the storyworld, including actions undertaken by characters and anything that happens to a character or its environment.

Exposition
    Initial stage in the evolution of a plot where the setting and the characters are introduced.

External narrator or narratee
    A narrator or narratee who is a figure of discourse but not an existent of the storyworld.

Falling action
    Stage in the evolution of a plot where the conflict unravels and wanes, as it begins to move towards a resolution.

Farfetched trope
    See Conceit.

Fiction
    A narrative that represents imagined (or partially imagined) characters, events, and environments.

Figurative language
    See Figure of speech.

Figure of speech (also, Figurative language, Rhetorical device, Trope)
    The use of language in ways that deviate from the literal meaning of words and sentences, exploiting connotations and associations with other words or sounds.

Flashback
    The presentation at some point in the plot of a previous event from the story.

Flashforward
    The presentation at some point in the plot of a future event from the story.

Focalisation
    The perspective or point of view adopted by the narrator when telling the story.

Foregrounding
    A set of linguistic features of discourse that deviate from the normal or ordinary use of language.

Foreshadowing
    Anticipation of future events through hints given earlier in the plot.

Genre
    Conventional grouping of texts (or other semiotic representations) based on certain shared features.

Hyperbole
    A figure of speech that makes an exaggerated claim in order to emphasise a certain point or create a strong impression.

Ideology
    An interconnected set of beliefs, ideas, values, and norms that structures the worldview of a person or group.

Implied author
    The projection of the real author in the text, as can be inferred by the reader from the text itself.

Implied reader
    The virtual reader to whom the implied author addresses its narrative, and whose thoughts and attitudes may differ from an actual reader.

Individuation
    The ascription of mental, physical, or behavioural properties (characteristics) to a character.

In medias res
    A Latin expression that refers to narratives that begin at some point in the middle of the plot (‘in the middle of things’).

Internal narrator or narratee
    A narrator or narratee who, besides being a figure of discourse, is also an existent of the storyworld, particularly a minor or major character.

Inward focalisation
    Narration from the subjective perspective or point of view of one or more focal characters.

Irony
    Use of discourse to state something different from, or even opposite to, what is meant.

Ironic narrator
    A narrator who makes statements about the characters or events in the story that mean something very different, even the opposite, of what is being stated.

Lifeworld
    The world experienced by writers and readers in their lives.

Limited narrator
    A narrator who has only limited knowledge about the internal or psychological states of one or some of the existents in the storyworld.

Metaphor
    A figure of speech that establishes a relationship of resemblance between two ideas or things by equating or replacing one with the other.

Metonymy
    A figure of speech that replaces an idea or thing with another idea or thing, with which it is somehow connected or related in meaning.

Mise en abyme (from French, ‘placed into an abyss’)
    A literary device that embeds self-reflecting or recursive images to create paradoxical narrations.

Moral
    See Thesis.

Motif
    An existent that recurs throughout the story and often has a symbolic significance.

Narratee
    The figure of discourse to whom a story is told by the narrator.

Narrative
    Semiotic representation of a sequence of events, meaningfully connected by time and cause.

Narratology
    The systematic study of narratives in order to understand their structure (how they work) and function (what they are for).

Narrator
    The figure of discourse that tells the story to a narratee.

Nonfiction
    A narrative that claims to represent characters, events, and environments drawn from the lifeworld of writers and readers.

Novel
    A fictional narrative of book length, written in prose, and generally intended to be read in silence.

Novella
    A fictional narrative longer than a short story but shorter than a standard novel, written in prose, and generally intended to be read in silence.

Objective narrator
    A narrator who has no knowledge about the internal or psychological states of any of the characters in the storyworld and can only report what can be observed from the outside.

Omniscient narrator
    A narrator who knows everything about the existents of the storyworld, including the internal or psychological states of all characters and the unfolding of events.

Outward focalisation
    Narration that avoids taking the subjective perspective or point of view of any of the characters.

Oxymoron
    A figure of speech that connects or combines elements that appear to be contradictory, but which contain a concealed point or a paradox.

Personification
    A figure of speech that attributes personal or human characteristics to a nonhuman entity, object, or idea.

Plot
    The meaningful arrangement or representation of the events in the story in a temporal and causal sequence.

Polyphony
    The inclusion in narrative of a diversity of points of view and voices.

Prose
    Written or spoken language without metrical structure.

Protagonist
    The main character of a story, the one who struggles to achieve some goal.

Realism
    Narrative discourse that aims to construct a storyworld that is an accurate reflection of the lifeworld (i.e. the ‘real’ world).

Red herring
    Foreshadowing of an event that never takes place in the plot.

Resolution
    The action of solving a conflict at the end of the plot.

Rhetoric
    The art of crafting effective or persuasive discourse.

Rhetorical device
    See Figure of speech.

Rising action
    Stage in the evolution of a plot where the conflict becomes complex and increases in intensity.

Scene
    The narrative representation of an environment, set of characters, and sequence of events in enough detail to create the illusion that the events are unfolding in front of the narratee (and ultimately, the reader).

Semiotics
    Study of meaning-making processes, especially the use of signs and signifying systems to communicate meanings.

Setting
    The meaningful arrangement or representation of the environments in the story.

Short story
    A fictional narrative of shorter length than a novel and a novella, written in prose, and generally intended to be read in silence.

Showing
    The direct representation of the events, environments, and characters of a story without the intervention (or, in the case of narrative showing, with minimal or limited intervention) of a narrator.

Significant detail
    A descriptive detail that reveals meaningful connections between the existents of the story and helps the reader to recreate the storyworld in her imagination.

Simile
    A figure of speech that establishes a relationship of resemblance between two ideas or things through an explicit comparison using a connector (usually, ‘like’ or ‘as’).

Speech tags
    See Dialogue tags.

Story
    A complete chronological sequence of interconnected events.

Storyworld
    The world of the story, which includes different types of existents (events, environments, and characters).

Style
    A characteristic set of linguistic features associated with a text or group of texts.

Summary
    The narrative representation of events by compressing their duration.

Surprise
    A turn of the plot that disproves the reader’s anticipation of events.

Suspense
    Reader’s anticipation and curiosity about future plot developments based on previous events.

Symbol
    Anything that represents something else by virtue of an arbitrary association. In narrative, symbols are existents of the story that become arbitrarily associated with internal or external meanings.

Synecdoche
    A figure of speech, closely related with metonymy, where a term for a part refers to the whole of something, or vice versa.

Synopsis
    A brief summary of the events, environments, and characters of a story.

Telling
    The representation of a story through the mediation of a narrator, who gives an account and often interprets or comments on the events, environments, or characters of the storyworld.

Theme
    A relevant meaning identified by an interpreter in narrative discourse.

Thesis (also, Moral)
    A message or lesson explicitly or implicitly conveyed by narrative discourse.

Topography
    The arrangement of natural and artificial things laid out in space.

Trope
    See Figure of speech.

Type
    See Typical character.

Typical character (also, Type)
    A character that represents a particular aspect of humanity or a particular group of humans.

Universal character
    A character that represents a general aspect of humanity or the whole human species.

Unreliable narrator
    A narrator who makes statements that contradict what the implied reader knows (or infers) to be the real intention or meaning of the narrative discourse.

Verisimilitude
    Features of narrative discourse that attempt to convince readers that the storyworld is a faithful imitation of the ‘real’ world.

Verse
    Written or spoken language arranged in metrical rhythm, and often containing a rhyme.