holography
hologram
    A technique that enables a wavefront to be
    recorded and later re-constructed.
    
    Holography is best known as a method of
    generating three-dimensional images, but
    it also has a wide range of other
    applications.
    
    In principle, it is possible to make a
    hologram for any type of wave.
    
    A hologram is made by superimposing a
    second wavefront (normally called the
    reference beam) on the wavefront of
    interest, thereby generating an
    interference pattern which is recorded on
    a physical medium.
    
    When only the second wavefront illuminates
    the interference pattern, it is diffracted
    to recreate the original wavefront.
    
    Holograms can also be computer-generated
    by modelling the two wavefronts and adding
    them together digitally.
    
    The resulting digital image is then
    printed onto a suitable mask or film and
    illuminated by a suitable source to
    reconstruct the wavefront of interest.

    Holography is a photographic technique
    that records the light scattered from an
    object, and then presents it in a way that
    appears three-dimensional.
    
    Holograms pop up in movies such as "Star
    Wars" and "Iron Man," but the technology
    has not quite caught up to movie magic —
    yet.

albedo
    The proportion of the incident light or
    radiation that is reflected by a surface,
    typically that of a planet or moon.

wavefront
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wavefront

    In physics, the wavefront of a time-
    varying field is the set (locus) of all
    points where the wave has the same phase
    of the sinusoid.
    
    The term is generally meaningful only for
    fields that, at each point, vary
    sinusoidally in time with a single
    temporal frequency (otherwise the phase is
    not well defined).
    
    Wavefronts usually move with time.
    
    For waves propagating in an unidimensional
    medium, the wavefronts are usually single
    points; they are curves in a two
    dimensional medium, and surfaces in a
    three-dimensional one.

    A wave front is defined as a surface over
    which the phase of the wave is constant.
    
    In a particular wave front, at a given
    moment of time, all particles of the
    medium are undergoing the same motion.
    
    Two types of wave fronts are particularly
    important.
    
    They are plane wave fronts and spherical
    wave fronts.

phase
out of phase
    A definition of the position of a point in
    time (instant) on a waveform cycle.

    Phase can also be an expression of
    relative displacement between or among
    waves having the same frequency .

    Phase is the same frequency, same cycle,
    same wavelength, but are 2 or more wave
    forms not exactly aligned together.
    
    "Phase is not a property of just one RF
    signal but instead involves the
    relationship between two or more signals
    that share the same frequency.
    
    Below is an example of 2 wave forms 90
    degree out of phase.