Salvador Dalí
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech
    [Spanish artist]

    A Spanish surrealist artist renowned for
    his technical skill, precise
    draftsmanship, and the striking and
    bizarre images in his work.
    
    Born in Figueres, Catalonia, Spain, Dalí
    received his formal education in fine arts
    in Madrid.

Surrealist Manifesto
    Four Surrealist Manifestos are known to
    exist.
    
    The first two manifestos, published in
    October 1924, were written by Yvan Goll
    and André Breton, the leaders of rivaling
    Surrealist groups.
    
    Breton published his second manifesto for
    the Surrealists in 1929, and wrote his
    third manifesto that was not issued during
    his lifetime.

Surrealist cinema
Surrealist music
Surreal humour
Surrealist techniques
Birmingham Surrealists
Women Surrealists

muse
    The guiding spirit that is thought to
    inspire artists; source of genius or
    inspiration (noun).

naturalism
    Faithful adherence to nature; factual or
    realistic representation.

phantasmagoria
    A sequence of real or imaginary images
    like those seen in a dream.

semiotic art
    Semiotics offers another way of analyzing
    images, be they found in artwork or
    another type of visual culture, like
    advertising.

    Semiotics is the study of signs.

    In semiotics the basic unit is the sign.

    Signs are representations that have
    meanings beyond what they literally
    represent.

automatism
    [art]

    Refers to creating art without conscious
    thought, accessing material from the
    unconscious mind as part of the creative
    process.

    Strategies of writing or creating art that
    aimed to access the unconscious mind.

    The Surrealists, in particular,
    experimented with automatist techniques of
    writing, drawing, and painting.

frottage
    A surrealist and 'automatic' method of
    creative production that involves creating
    a rubbing of a textured surface using a
    pencil or other drawing material

grattage
    [surrealist painting technique]

    Involves laying a canvas prepared with a
    layer of oil paint over a textured object
    and then scraping the paint off to create
    an interesting and unexpected surface

Max Ernst
    (1891-1976)

    A German (naturalised American in 1948 and
    French in 1958) painter, sculptor, graphic
    artist, and poet.

    A prolific artist, Ernst was a primary
    pioneer of the Dada movement and
    surrealism.

    He had no formal artistic training, but
    his experimental attitude toward the
    making of art resulted in his invention of
    frottage-a technique that uses pencil
    rubbings of objects as a source of
    images-and grattage, an analogous
    technique in which paint is scraped across
    canvas to reveal the imprints of the
    objects placed beneath.

    He is also noted for his novels consisting
    of collages.

abstract
abstract art
    Breaking away from the figurative
    representation of objects, abstract art
    reimagines imagery as a study of the
    relationship between shape, form, color,
    and line.

    Abstraction occurs on a continuum,
    including the fractured-yet-recognizable
    forms of Cubism and the totally
    nonpictorial nature of Abstract
    Expressionism.

    A term generally used to describe art that
    is not representational or based on
    external reality or nature.

expressionism
    A modernist movement, initially in poetry
    and painting, originating in Northern
    Europe around the beginning of the 20th
    century.

    Its typical trait is to present the world
    solely from a subjective perspective,
    distorting it radically for emotional
    effect in order to evoke moods or ideas.

abstract expressionism
    The dominant artistic movement in the
    1940s and 1950s, Abstract Expressionism
    was the first to place New York City at
    the forefront of international modern art.

    The associated artists developed greatly
    varying stylistic approaches, but shared a
    commitment to an abstract art that
    powerfully expresses personal convictions
    and profound human values.

    They championed bold, gestural abstraction
    in all mediums, particularly large painted
    canvases.

abstraction
    Non-representational works of art that do
    not depict scenes or objects in the world
    or have discernable subject matter.

appropriation
    As an artistic strategy, the intentional
    borrowing, copying, and alteration of
    preexisting images, objects, and ideas.

avant-garde
    French for “advanced guard,” this term is
    used in English to describe a group that
    is innovative, experimental, and inventive
    in its technique or ideology, particularly
    in the realms of culture, politics, and
    the arts.

baroque
    A term meaning extravagant, complex;
    applied to a style in art and architecture
    developed in Europe from the early
    seventeenth to mid-eighteenth century,
    emphasizing dramatic, often strained
    effect and typified by bold, curving
    forms, elaborate ornamentation, and
    overall balance of disparate parts.

biomorphic
    Derived from the Greek words bios (life)
    and morphe (form), a term referring to
    abstract forms or images that evoke
    associations with living forms such as
    plants and the human body.

brushwork
    Brushwork refers to the way a painter
    applies paint to a surface.

    It is typically characterized by the size,
    texture, and precision of the strokes.

caricature
    A rendering, usually a drawing, of a
    person or thing with exaggerated or
    distorted features, meant to satirize the
    subject.

chiaroscuro
    Italian for “light-dark,” chiaroscuro is
    the use of strong contrasts between
    luminosity and shadow to achieve a sense
    of volume and dimensionality.

    This unique technique was developed during
    the Italian Renaissance by Leonard da
    Vinci, the Baroque period by Caravaggio,
    and the Dutch Golden Age by Rembrandt.

dada
    An artistic and literary movement formed
    in response to the disasters of World War
    I (1914– 18) and to an emerging modern
    media and machine culture.

    Dada artists sought to expose accepted and
    often-repressive conventions of order and
    logic, favoring strategies of chance,
    spontaneity, and irreverence.

    Dada artists experimented with a range of
    mediums, from collage and photomontage to
    everyday objects and performance,
    exploding typical concepts of how art
    should be made and viewed and what
    materials could be used.

    An international movement born in neutral
    Zurich and New York, Dada rapidly spread
    to Berlin, Cologne, Hannover, Paris, and
    beyond.

exquisite corpse
    A game in which each participant takes
    turns writing or drawing on a sheet of
    paper, folds it to conceal his or her
    contribution, then passes it to the next
    player for a further contribution.

    The game gained popularity in artistic
    circles during the 1920s, when it was
    adopted as a technique by artists of the
    Surrealist movement.

figurative
    A work of art is considered figurative
    when its subject matter is
    representational.

    Representing a form or figure in art that
    retains clear ties to the real world.

foreground
    The foreground of a work of art is the
    part of the composition that is closest to
    the viewer.

    It is typically discernible from the
    background, which appears to be further
    away.

foreshortening
    A technique in which an artist distorts
    perspective to evoke an illusion of depth.

    Foreshortened subjects often appear to
    recede into the picture plane.

found objects
    An object—often utilitarian, manufactured
    or naturally occurring—that was not
    originally designed for an artistic
    purpose but has been repurposed in an
    artistic context.

    Frottage A technique that involves rubbing
    pencil, graphite, chalk, crayon, or
    another medium onto a

genre
    A category of artistic practice having a
    particular form, content, or technique.
    Examples of genres include:
    - landscape, and
    - still life.

iconography
    Refers to the subject matter, or images,
    used to convey meaning or communicate a
    message in a work of art.

    Subject matter in visual art, often
    adhering to particular conventions of
    artistic representation, and imbued with
    symbolic meanings.

in situ
in-situ
    In its original position or place.

    "I love in-situ in everyday objects.."

juxtaposition
    An act of placing things close together or
    side by side for comparison or contrast.

    Manifesto A public declaration, often
    political in nature, of a group or
    individual’s principles, belie

medium
    A medium is the material used to create
    art.

    Examples of mediums are watercolor paint,
    pastel, clay, and charcoal.

    The materials used to create a work of
    art, and the categorization of art based
    on the materials used (for example,
    painting [or more specifically,
    watercolor], drawing, sculpture).

motif
    In the visual arts, a motif is an element
    of the iconography.

    In paintings, a motif can refer to any
    pictorial feature of the composition.

    In the decorative arts and architecture,
    it often denotes a recognizable symbol
    that repeats.

    A distinctive and often recurring feature
    in a composition.

muse
    The guiding spirit that is thought to
    inspire artists; source of genius or
    inspiration (noun).

naturalism
    Faithful adherence to nature; factual or
    realistic representation.

neo-impressionism
    A term coined by French art critic Fénéon
    in 1886, applied to an avant-garde art
    movement that flourished principally in
    France from 1886 to 1906.

    Led by the example of Georges Seurat, the
    Neo-Impressionists renounced the
    spontaneity of Impressionism in favor of a
    measured painting technique grounded in
    science and the study of optics.

    Neo-Impressionists came to believe that
    separate touches of pigment result in a
    greater vibrancy of color than is achieved
    by the conventional mixing of pigments on
    the palette.

pentimento
    Pentimento (“repentance” in Italian)
    refers to the presence of evidence that an
    artist has painted over a previously
    rendered subject.

    In The Old Guitarist by Pablo Picasso, for
    example, the vague outline of a woman’s
    face is apparent beneath the final
    brushstrokes.

perspective
    The representation of 3-dimensional depth
    and space on a flat surface.

    There are two main types of perspective:
    linear and atmospheric.

    Linear perspective employs intersecting
    lines and vanishing points as a means to
    make objects appear far away.

    According to Leonardo da Vinci in A
    Treatise on Painting, atmospheric
    perspective, on the other hand,
    illustrates the idea that “colors become
    weaker in proportion to their distance
    from the person who is looking at them”
    through tonal changes.

oil paint
    A paint in which pigment is suspended in
    oil, which dries on exposure to air.

old master
    A distinguished European artist of the
    period from about 1500 to the early 1700s,
    especially one of the great painters of
    this period, e.g. Michelangelo.

paranoiac critical method
    Emerging from psychological methods, a
    creative process, developed by Surrealist
    artist Salvador Dalí in the 1930s, for the
    exploration of the creative potential of
    dream imagery and subconscious thoughts.

post-impressionism
    A term coined in 1910 by the English art
    critic and painter Roger Fry and applied
    to the reaction against the naturalistic
    depiction of light and color in
    Impressionism, led by Paul Cézanne, Paul
    Gauguin, Vincent van Gogh, and Georges
    Seurat.

    Though each of these artists developed his
    own, distinctive style, they were unified
    by their interest in expressing their
    emotional and psychological responses to
    the world through bold colors and
    expressive, often symbolic images.

    Post-Impressionism can be roughly dated
    from 1886 to 1905.

subconscious (in technical use, Unconscious)
    In popular writing about psychology, the
    division of the mind containing the sum of
    all thoughts, memories, impulses, desires,
    feelings, etc., that are not subject to a
    person’s perception or control but that
    often affect conscious thoughts and
    behavior (noun).

    The Surrealists derived much inspiration
    from psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud’s
    theories on dreams and the workings of the
    subconscious mind.

surreality
absolute reality
super-reality
    The aim of surrealism is to resolve the
    previously contradictory conditions of
    dream and reality into a surreality.

surrealism
    [cultural movement]

    About finding a bridge between the
    subconscious and reality.

    An artistic and literary movement led by
    French poet André Breton from 1924 through
    World War II.

    Drawing on the psychoanalytic theories of
    Sigmund Freud, the Surrealists sought to
    overthrow what they perceived as the
    oppressive rationalism of modern society
    by accessing the surréalisme (superior
    reality) of the subconscious.

    In his 1924 “Surrealist Manifesto,” Breton
    argued for an uninhibited mode of
    expression derived from the mind’s
    involuntary mechanisms, particularly
    dreams, and called on artists to explore
    the uncharted depths of the imagination
    with radical new methods and visual forms.

    These ranged from abstract “automatic”
    drawings to hyper-realistic painted scenes
    inspired by dreams and nightmares to
    uncanny combinations of materials and
    objects.

symbol
    A form, sign, or emblem that represents
    something else, often something
    immaterial, such as an idea or emotion.

tone
    Tone refers to the lightness or darkness
    of a particular color.

trompe l’oeil
    In French, trompe l’oeil means “deceive
    the eye.” A technique that creates optical
    illusions of three-dimensionality by
    employing eye-catching lifelike imagery.

venus
    The godess of love and beauty in Roman
    mythology.

liminal space
    The word "liminal" comes from the Latin
    word “limen,” which means threshold.
    
    To be in a liminal space means to be on
    the precipice of something new but not
    quite there yet.
    
    You can be in a liminal space physically,
    emotionally, or metaphorically.
    
    Being in a liminal space can be incredibly
    uncomfortable for most people.

aerography
    A surrealist method in which a stencil
    used in spraypainting is replaced by a
    three-dimensional object, such as a
    person's hand.

    The aerography technique is most
    recognizable as a blended and
    photorealistic style.

    The method has been used to decorate tiles
    from the Victorian era and in the works of
    Man Ray.

automatism
    A term is borrowed from physiology, where
    it describes bodily movements that are not
    consciously controlled like breathing or
    sleepwalking.
    
    Psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud used free
    association and automatic drawing or
    writing to explore the unconscious mind of
    his patients.

bulletism
    An artistic process that involves shooting
    ink at a blank piece of paper. The result
    is a type of ink blot.
    
    The artist can then develop images based
    on what is seen.
    
    Salvador Dalí named this technique.

calligramme
    A calligramme is a text or poem of a type
    developed by Guillaume Apollinaire in
    which the words or letters make up a
    shape, particularly a shape connected to
    the subject of the text or poem.

    https://www.google.com/search?q=calligramme&sxsrf=ALiCzsaanMZRDPW6zqVjXr1kjiTs7KWYSA%3A1654327941338&tbm=isch&source=iu&ictx=1&vet=1&fir=huHFTF7kFhAKWM%252CBAJNCa86HCn7GM%252C_%253B7fWVZ8BG99dOAM%252CwpIUZ7Lg5vuD7M%252C_%253Bf1wMjS0GD1pQjM%252CokuOsVuDOVBPKM%252C_%253B-qOBBbSFHyDRAM%252CzuulOvpnKau5HM%252C_%253BPOCZ-zwCBKicsM%252CyeExpK3qd8QjaM%252C_%253BTircu0HX8uggrM%252CZiZ638DrSCuVOM%252C_%253BbIlPrOQ0TnGIYM%252CuwRWgSNYf6mwdM%252C_%253Bi5cPyD5PbFbXRM%252CtNs8W82p7YWprM%252C_%253BywBJT4-HuvW2PM%252CZiZ638DrSCuVOM%252C_%253B4_OTVBWN0zC3GM%252CKDcs0K02hjgu6M%252C_%253Br2VRQID15BObwM%252Cr8eRJITlsSAKJM%252C_%253BXOlhz_q1IIzmHM%252CFGp9zLYWBPfaRM%252C_%253BbtcNu0opf0NXBM%252CvmSk4pkkpaYnBM%252C_%253BSf-wmNrESl5o_M%252CmVtVRAm9dcaxZM%252C_%253BLc0SdOZpP_DnIM%252CzbDn3TqglaGEbM%252C_%253B66pz7CQmPuKDgM%252CTe1vfafX9EVwAM%252C_%253BFxS1624zbbOgfM%252CNSrEc1YZLDGKcM%252C_%253Bc27WXIji09z_DM%252CKDcs0K02hjgu6M%252C_&usg=AI4_-kTcZNQEBIraeNGogRLU28jinE2WDA&sa=X#imgrc=i5cPyD5PbFbXRM

collage
    The assemblage of different forms creating
    a new whole.
    
    For example, an artistic collage work may
    include newspaper clippings, ribbons, bits
    of colored or hand-made papers,
    photographs, etc., glued to a solid
    support or canvas.

coulage
    A coulage is a kind of automatic or
    involuntary sculpture made by pouring a
    molten material (such as metal, wax,
    chocolate or white chocolate) into cold
    water.
    
    As the material cools it takes on what
    appears to be a random (or aleatoric)
    form, though the physical properties of
    the materials involved may lead to a
    conglomeration of discs or spheres.
    
    The artist may use a variety of techniques
    to affect the outcome.
    
    This technique is also used in the
    divination process known as ceromancy.

cubomania
    A method of making collages in which a
    picture or image is cut into squares and
    the squares are then reassembled without
    regard for the image.
    
    The technique was first used by the
    Romanian surrealist Gherasim Luca.

cut-up technique
    A literary form or method in which a text
    is cut up at random and rearranged to
    create a new text.

decalcomania
    A process of spreading thick paint upon a
    canvas then—while it is still wet—covering
    it with further material such as paper or
    aluminium foil.
    
    This covering is then removed (again
    before the paint dries), and the resultant
    paint pattern becomes the basis of the
    finished painting.
    
    The technique was much employed by artists
    such as Max Ernst.

dream résumé
    Takes the form of an employment résumé but
    chronicles its subject's achievements,
    employment, or the like, in dreams, rather
    than in waking life.
    
    Sometimes dream résumés contain the
    achievements of both, however.

    http://katherinekean.blogspot.com/2009/06/ten-highlights-from-my-dream-resume.html

echo poem
    An echo poem is a poem written using a
    technique invented by Aurélien Dauguet in
    1972.
    
    The poem is composed by one or more
    persons, working together in a process as
    follows.
    
    The first "stanza" of the poem is written
    on the left-hand column of a piece of
    paper divided into two columns.
    
    Then the "opposite", or 'echo', of the
    first stanza, in whatever sense is
    appropriate to the poem, is composed in
    the right-hand column of the page.
    
    The writing is done automatically and
    often the "opposite" stanza is composed of
    a phonetic correspondence to the first
    stanza.
    
    For a longer work, the third stanza can
    then begin in the left-hand column as an
    "opposite" or a phonetic correspondence to
    what preceded it in the right-hand column.
    
    Then the fourth stanza might be an
    "opposite" or sound correspondence to what
    preceded it in the left-hand column, and
    so forth.
    
    When the poem is completed, the echo of
    the last phrase, line, or sentence,
    generally serves as the title.
    
    This is unrelated to the non-Surrealist
    echo verse form which appears as a
    dialogue between the questions of a
    character and the answers of the nymph
    Echo.

éclaboussure

entopic graphomania

étrécissements

exquisite corpse

frottage

fumage

games

grattage

heatage

indecipherable writing

involuntary sculpture

latent news

movement of liquid down a vertical surface

paranoiac-critical method

parsemage

photomontage

sifflage

surautomatism

triptography